# Stage 2 - Sample web site / client

> Create a sample Vue web site

This stage could have used another web technology other than Vue. React, Angular, and others are all fine for the purposes here.
I've chosen Vue because I'd like to use it and it's simple to get up and running.  One command to create a project. One to
run a development instance and one to build the production ready static web site.  That's perfect for our needs here today.

[Vue CLI guide](https://cli.vuejs.org/guide/)

## Installation
> During the workshop skip to the next section. The following describes how to set up the Vue web site.

Here is how you can create your own new application. 
You will install Vue command line interface (CLI) locally and create a sample web site.
For the workshop these steps have been done for you.

Your project directory structure started like this
```
.
├─ ...
├─ client-stage2/
└─ ...
```
First, initialize the vue directory to make it a npm project.
This creates the basic ```package.json``` file.  This allows us to install Vue CLI and keep
the setup.  
```
cd client-stage2
# initialize the project and just accept the defaults for now
npm init
# install Vue CLI in this project
npm install --save  @vue/cli

vue create my-project

cd my-project

# to run the dev server with hot swap updates
npm run serve

# to build the web site for production
npm run build
```
The build process creates a ```dist``` folder that contains the static web site.
We will link this directory to in our docker compose file to tell nginx to server this directory for all requests to our site.

Your project directory structure now looks like this:

```
.
├─ ...
├─ client/
│  ├─ package.json
│  └─ my-project/
│     ├─ dist/
│     ├─ public/
│     ├─ src/
│     └─ package.json
└─ ...
```

You can add ```**/dist/**``` to your root .gitignore file to ignore the generated built files.


## Workshop Instructions
The project has already set up the Vue web site. We just need to install the dependencies and start
serving the web site.

> Install dependencies

``` 
cd client-stage2
npm install  # installs Vue CLI

cd my-project
npm install  # installs the Vue project files
```

> Try out the development environment

On your development machine cd to the my-project folder and try out the hot-swapping Vue server.
```
cd client-stage2/my-project
npm run serve  # to build and serve the client sample vue web site
```
This launches the vue hot-swap server which watches for changes to your code, retranspiles the files and pushes the changes
to your open browser window. Go ahead and make a change to a file in the sample app. For example, add a paragraph into
```my-project/src/App.vue``` in the topmost template section. Save the file (if your IDE doesn't do that for you automatically).
Return to your browser and the change will be there.

> Build the client for production ready static files

Now build the client web site. Do this on both your dev and prod environments.
The build produces the production ready static web site.
```
cd client-stage2/my-project
npm run build
```

Next we set up docker with nginx. Go to [nginx](./3.nginx.md)

