# Docker and Ngnix

> Set up docker-compose to run nginx and serve the sample web site. 

## Workshop Instructions
Read over the description of how to create the Docker files and then see below for instructions on how to launch the app.


## The docker files
By now you've set up and built the sample web client as described previously.
We now need to serve the site with a production web server and we'll use nginx.
We want to run nginx in its own docker container and it turns out this is very easy to do.
```
mkdir nginx
echo 'FROM nginx' > nginx/DOCKERFILE
```

We'll add more to this file soon.

nginx/DOCKERFILE
```
FROM nginx
``` 

The docker-compose file is more interesting. It links our static web site to the nginx.


./stage2-docker-compose.yml
```
version: "3"
services:
  nginx:
    container_name: nginx-stage2
    build:
      context: ./nginx
      dockerfile: Dockerfile
    ports:
      - "8083:80"
    volumes:
      - "./client-stage2/my-project/dist/:/usr/share/nginx/html/"
```

Note the port mapping sets us up for development. On your development box open a browser and navigate to
http://localhost:8083.  What you see is the same as what will be served from the production server.
But on a production server we need to serve pages on port 80. We also want to set the nginx flag to restart after a reboot.
To do this we create an override file. Overrides replace values in the main docker file. 

./stage2-prod-override.yml
```
version: "3"
services:
  nginx:
    ports:
      - "80:80"
    restart: "always"      
```

## Launch the app on dev

To run production on your development box: 
``` 
docker-compose -f stage2-docker-compose.yml up --build
```
See your app at http://localhost:8083

### Mac setup
Did you see an error like the following on the Mac development environment?

> ERROR: for nginx-stage2  Cannot start service nginx: b'Mounts denied: 
The path ... is not shared from OS X
and is not known to Docker. You can configure shared paths from Docker -> Preferences... -> File Sharing.
See https://docs.docker.com/docker-for-mac/osxfs/#namespaces for more info.'

As it says you need to open the Docker preferences and add in the path to your web site static files. 

## Launch the app on prod

Use ssh to return to your production server and return to your project folder. 
``` 
# on production

cd client-stage2
npm install # only needed once per install
cd my-project
npm install # only needed after updating Vue project packages

npm run build  # do this after changes on you web site.

cd ../..  # return to project root

# Launch the app with production overrides
sudo docker-compose -f stage2-docker-compose.yml -f stage2-prod-override.yml up --build
```

After a moment you will see 
``` 
Creating nginx-stage2 ... done
Attaching to nginx-stage2
```
This is when you can open a browser and see your app at http://\<your server ip address>

This is end of stage 2.  
